---
layout: post
title: Launching of the scanning process! 
subtitle: Updates on WP1 and its associated systematic reviews 
tags: [sustainable science, literature review, IoT, modelling and simulation, article recommendation]
comments: true
---

Following the approval of the research protocol by the project's partners, the equations developed under the frame of WP1 have been run through the selected research databases. 
No less than about 40,000 articles have been gathered for the scanning phase, which was initiated early July.
Readers, most likely PhD students from partner institutions, are in the process of being recruted to support the scanning efforts. 
After comparing several tools, WP1 team picked [Rayyan](https://rayyan.ai/) to sort articles during the title and abstract scanning. 


Additionally, Hester du Plessis, our partner from the University of Pretoria, recommended the reading of [the following article](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11625-020-00866-y) about the impact of the Covid19 crisis on sustainable development research.
Climate change is one of the major challenges of modern times. 
However, the COVID-19 pandemic and the current conflicts seen in various countries, have been having various negative influences in the efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change.
This article is part of papers selected for the initiative "100 papers to accelerate climate change mitigation and adaptation" that just started. 
From September 2022 to September 2026, researchers from round the world and across a wide range of disciplines will work together in undertaking studies on a set of key topics related to climate change mitigation and adaptation, leading to scientific papers to be published in high quality peer-reviewed journals, all of which aimed at supporting SDG13 (Climate Action).
Something to look forward to and follow!
